---
layout: post
title:      "A Look Back: What I wish I knew when I started this course"
date:       2021-06-22 02:02:01 +0000
permalink:  a_look_back_what_i_wish_i_knew_when_i_started_this_course
---


Here I am. At the end of a very long road. I'm embarrased to admit that I started this course at the beginning of 2018. What I had expected to be a straightforward three to six month journey turned into several periods of starting and stopping over the course of three years! I could blame the many life events that occured during that time. Getting married and planning two international ceremonies, traveling to nine different countries, living on a remote island on the east coast of Africa(time zone makes it extremely difficult to join any study groups), having a baby, and now looking forward to welcoming our second in September....There are many things that drew my attention away from this course. And I was very close to quitting multiple times. But now as I look back, I can easily outline several things would have helped me along they way:

1. The Solution Branch - Howwww did I not know about this?? I didn't really discover the solution branch to the labs until I really started to understand how Git and Github worked. But it made such a huge impact on my learning and confidence (point 3 which I will get to shortly) that I was absorbing the material so much faster than I was previously. Let me be clear. I am not endorsing this as a quick way out of doing your own work on the labs. But considering the fact that my time zone made it such a struggle to get help via Ask A Question or attend any study groups....this was the single biggest thing that helped me. Technically speaking anyway. It was like I had my own personal coach with me. If I got stuck on the lab and didn't have anyone to turn to for help, I could instantly reference the solution and try to understand where my mistake was.....and this was where many concepts started to click for me. 

2. Instructor videos - I discovered the library of videos much earlier than the solution branch, but still didn't know about it until I was several sections deep in the course. The additional videos linked at the top of each section's Slack channel was also a game changing study aid. I don't think this was available when I first started this course but it has helped immensely since I could not attend any study groups of my own. 

3. Confidence - Yes I know its cliché but...hear me out for a second. Everyone who starts this journey thinks they can do it. We all begin with that belief in ourself and our vision for an exciting new career path. But when you're stuck on a lab for an entire day...heck even days...its hard to maintain that mindset. I had gone on breaks that lasted weeks simply because I got stuck on a lab and had absolutely zero confidence that I was smart enough to do it. And when I tried to jump back in, I was even more lost having forgotten the material and would have to go back and re-learn everything again. I am a big believer in manifesting and envisioning what we want. But for some reason I didn't apply it to this course until the end of last year. I kept seeing Flatiron Graduates on LinkedIn post their certificate after graduating the course. I then started to imagine having my name on that certificate and how amazing it would feel to get one of my own. Anytime my confidence started to dip, I would go back to that image to lift be back up into a better mindset and push forward just one more step.
